== Zaypay Payalogue Example

This Rails-App demonstrates how you can use the Zaypay gem within a Rails application to create payments, process payment_reports, verify payments etc...

While the API-approach requires the developer to create all payment screens, the Payalogue-approach frees the developer from creating the payment screens completely, hence saves you lots of code.

The is a 'barebone' application to give developers an idea of how to use our Zaypay gem and Payalogue within your application.
Obviously, if you want to add more functionalities to this app, such as a User model or authentication etc., feel free. Again, this is just a barebone demonstration.

If you do want to run this application as it is, you must do the following.

== Create Price Settings

Once you have a Zaypay account, you can create your Price Settings on www.zaypay.com.
By creating a Price Setting, you basically define the price (and a price margin) you want your customers to pay for a product or service.
Every Price Setting that you create has its own id and api-key, and you need to put these data into your Zaypay configuration file under config/zaypay.yml

== Zaypay Configuration file

As you can see, under the 'config' folder, there is a file named 'zaypay.yml'
Here you put all the id's and api-keys of the Price Settings that you want to use on your site.
    # config/zaypay.yml
    # Example
    # price_setting_id: api_key
    15347: b483bc8fga615234567890abcdef1234
    22354: d667e98cf96a6829e72d0f3b2e5bf764
    default: 15347

This allows your Zaypay gem to instantiate a Zaypay::PriceSetting object with a Price Setting id, and use this object to make requests to the Zaypay platform to get information regarding payments, locales etc...
The 'default' setting is optional and it allows the Zaypay::PriceSetting class in the Zaypay gem to be instantiated with the no-arg initializer.
For more information on how to use the Zaypay gem, check
https://github.com/zaypay/zaypay_gem

== Create Payalogues

Apart from creating Price Settings, you also need to create Payalogues.
On www.zaypay.com, you can create Payalogues and assign them to Price Settings that you have already created.
You don't need to add the Payalogue id's to the zaypay.yml, but you do need to add the Payalogue id's and the corresponding Price Setting id to your 'Products' table.
As you can see in the products#show view, an anchor tag is provided that links end-users to the Payalogue screen with the payalogue_id of the product.

== Populate your Products table
In this demo-app, we have a Products table with the columns :name, description, :price_setting_id and :payalogue_id
This demo app has no #create action in the products_controller, so you have to populate the table by yourself.

You can use the db/seeds.rb for this purpose
    # db/seeds.rb
    # Example
    Product.create(:name => 'Cool Weapon',     :description => 'Great for battles', :price_setting_id => 123455, :payalogue_id => 456789)
    Product.create(:name => 'UberCool Weapon', :description => 'Win every battle' , :price_setting_id => 987654, :payalogue_id => 654321)
Then in your terminal, run:
    # Terminal
    rake db:migrate
    rake db:seed

== Get the required gems

=== For RVM users
This demo app comes with a .rvmrc file. So if you use RVM, it will put the required gems in a separate Gemset

So when you navigate to the project directory, it will ask you
    Do you wish to trust this .rvmrc file? 
If you don't see this message. Go up a directory and back to the project directory again
    # terminal
    cd ../
    cd ../name_of_your_project_directory
Type 'y' for yes, and then it should prompt:
    Gemset 'zaypay_payalogue_demo_app' does not exist, rvm gemset create 'zaypay_payalogue_demo_app' first.
Then you create this gemset by running
    # Terminal
    rvm gemset create 'zaypay_payalogue_demo_app'

=== Install Gems 
In your terminal, make sure you are in your project directory, and then run
    bundle install
to install all necessary dependencies

== Run your app
Now you can run your app, with your own data for products and price_settings, by starting the server in your terminal
    rails s

== Port Forwarding
If you want to run this application on your localhost, and yet connect to the Zaypay platform to create payments, receive reports etc, you might need to configure port forwarding on your local machine.
    
== Other Zaypay demo applications
For other demo applications with the Zaypay gem, check
https://github.com/zaypay

== Zaypay Gem
For more information on how to use the Zaypay gem, check
https://github.com/zaypay/zaypay_gem

== License
Copyright © 2012 Zaypay. Release under MIT license. See the attached MIT-License file.